This lecture's gonna
be about reading JSON.
JSON's another file format.
It's a little bit similar to XML in
the sense that it's structured, and
it's also very commonly
used on the internet.
So JSON is short for
Javascript Object Navigation.
It's lightweight for data storage.
So it's very common in application
programming interfaces
which are ways that you can
programmatically detect access to data for
companies like Twitter or
Facebook through URLs.
Similar structure to XML in the sense
that it's a structured language, but
it's a very different syntax and format.
The data are stored as Numbers,
Strings, Booleans, Arrays, or Objects.
So if you want to know a little bit more
about JSON the best place to start again,
as usual, is actually Wikipedia.
This link will take you to a lot
more information about JSON.
So this is an example JSON file.
It actually comes from,
this is the API for github.
And this is actually the data about
the repos that I am contributing to.
And so, what you can do is go here and
look at this file.
And so,
there's a overall curly bracket that
represents the sort of entire JSON object.
And then, each of the different repos is
inside of its own separate curly bracket.
And so each repo has a bunch of
variables associated with it, so for
example the ID variable or
the full name of the repo and all that.
And so what you see is
the structure of a JSON file and
sort of the ID followed by a colon
followed by the value of the variable.
And so you can have nested
sort of structures within, so
for example an array can be
a component of the JSON objects.
So, for example, the owner variable
here actually has an array as the value,
so you could see there's the colon, and
then there's another open curly bracket.
And then there's a whole bunch
of variables, like my login, and
the avatar URL, and
all of that different information.
So there is actually a very nice
package for reading this data in.
It's called the jsonlite package.
So what you do is you actually take
the URL where the JSON appears, so
here's that URL, and
you pass it to the fromJSON function.
And what you get out is
a structured data frame.
So if you look at the names of that data
frame, it's gonna be all the top level
variables, things like ID, and
name, and full_name and so forth.
So one of those variables
as you can see is owner.
So that's one of the components
of this data frame.
So if we drill down a little bit and look
at the names of that particular variable,
you see names(jsonData$owner).
So usually this would access
one column of the data frame.
And so it turns out you can actually,
because of the flexibility of data frames
in R store the data frame
within a data frame.
So within that column of the data set,
the owner column, there's actually
a bunch of other information.
Cuz you remember owner corresponding
to an array of values.
So you get again, the login, the id,
say, the avatar_url and so forth.
So we can drill down even further and
so we can access, say, for
example the log n of all the different
repos on this particular page.
And since we're only looking at the API
for my repos, you can see that the login
is the same for all of them,
it's jtleek in every single case.
And so you can see there's one time for
every single repo that
exists in that data set.
And so
another thing that you can do is actually,
you can take data sets
that are data frames in R.
So one example of the very classic
data set, the Iris data set.
You can turn it into a JSON
dataset by saying, toJSON.
So this is nice if you're going to
be exporting data that's gonna be
used by an API that requires
JSON formatted data.
So here I've set pretty=TRUE, and
that would give you nice indentations so
it's easy to read the file
when you look at it.
So if you look at this variable,
this variable is not a text variable, and
so what we can do is we can use
the cat command to print it out and
you could see that it's
nicely structured like that.
So you can actually take that
JSON file we just created.
So we took the iris dataset, we turned it
into a JSON file with the toJSON command.
We can then take that text and
send it right back to a data
frame using the fromJSON command.
So the interesting thing here is,
in the first example that we
used it was actually a URL here.
We actually passed it a URL for
the JSON file.
And here we're just passing it a variable
name which corresponds to a text variable
that can then be converted
into a data frame.
So then if we look at the top of that
data frame using the head command
you see that you get
back the iris data sets.
So, if you just looked at
the iris data set by itself,
it'll look exactly the same
as using this file here.
So, if you want a little bit more
information you can go to json.org.
This'll give you more
information on JSON in general.
And then a really nice tutorial on
jsonlite that was the basis for
a lot of this lecture is
right here at r-bloggers.
So you can take that, take a look at that.
The jsonlite vignette is also quite good,
it gives you a lot more information.
So if you have a more complicated JSON
structure then you need to get access to,
you can go check out those resources and
they might give you a little
bit more information.